---
layout: post
title:  "When to go fast, and when to slow down"
date:   2024-10-20 
categories: book review
---
The feeling of moving fast is intoxicating.  And it's why I like working for high growth businesses.  Decisions are made quickly freeing us to start experimenting and executing instead of deliberating and waiting.

In my experience, at high growth companies, a lot of decisions must be made.  I make a lot of calls.  There are no committees to take critical decisions to and with small agile teams, there is often also no one else to consult with.  And there is often uncertainty, missing information, and fear of setting the company down a path that could prove to be wrong and costly to change later.

So how fast can I go, and when should I slow down and gather missing information or wait for some uncertainty to subside?  In the book [How to Decide, by Annie Duke](https://www.amazon.ca/How-Decide-Simple-Making-Choices-ebook/dp/B07TRJB3S3), the author's decision tree 'how fast can I go' is helpful guide to decision making is a helpful frame work that I often refer back to.

Go fast when it's a repeating option.  Choosing between the Pumpkin Spice Latte or the Matcha Latte shouldn't occupy too much of my thinking capacity because even if I make a choice and I don't like it, I'll have another opportunity to choose differently. I control when to get another latte.

I ask myself, when deliberating over two options, is it hard because, both options are actually pretty good?  A way I think about it is, if only one was available to you, would I be satisfied?  If yes, then I choose quickly, because either option is going to be satisfactory.

Is there minimal downside to a decision?  She gives the example of applying for college.  Shoot for the best, even if I have a low probability of succeeding because the investment I have to put in (time spent, application fee), is low but, if accepted, could change the trajectory of my life (for the better).

How easy (in cost, in time spent, perhaps relationships affected) would it be to change my mind?  What will be lost if I stop mid-way to correct course?  I think of this often in work situations.  What I realized is that many things can be fixed, course corrections can be made, often with less difficulty than I initially thought.

So I go fast when I can, but I slow down when warranted.  And read her book if you found this helpful!
 